docs/tutorial_developers.rst, before:

Tutorial for developers of WC models and WC modeling tools
==========================================================

Developers should follow these steps to build and use WC modeling computing environments (Docker images and containers) to test, debug, and run WC models and WC modeling tools.

#. Use *wc_env_manager* to pull existing WC modeling Docker images
#. Use *wc_env_manager* to create Docker containers with volumes mounted from the host and installations of software packages contained on the house
#. Run models and tools inside the Docker containers created by *wc_env_manager*


Pulling existing Docker images
------------------------------

First, use the following command to pull existing WC modeling Docker images. This will pull both the base image with third part dependencies, *wc_env_dependencies*, and the image with WC models and modeling tools, *wc_env*.::

  wc_env_manager pull

The following commands can also be used to pull the individual images.::

  wc_env_manager base-image pull
  wc_env_manager image pull


Building containers for WC modeling
-----------------------------------

Second, set the configuration for the containers created by *wc_env_manager* by creating a configuration file `./wc_env_manager.cfg` following the schema outlined in `/path/to/wc_env_manager/wc_env_manager/config/core.schema.cfg` and the defaults in `/path/to/wc_env_manager/wc_env_manager/config/core.default.cfg`.

    * Set the host paths that should be mounted into the containers. Typically, this should including mounting the parent directory of your Git repositories into the container. For example, this configuration will map (a) the Documents directory of your host (`${HOME}/Documents`) to the `/root/host/Documents` directory of the container and (b) your the WC modeling configuration directory of your host (`${HOME}/.wc`) to the WC modeling configuration directory of the container (`/root/.wc`). `${HOME}` will be substituted for the path to your home directory on your host.::

        [wc_env_manager]
            [[container]]
                [[[paths_to_mount]]]
                    [[[[${HOME}/Documents]]]]
                        bind = /root/host/Documents
                        mode = rw
                    [[[[${Home}/.wc]]]]
                        bind = /root/.wc
                        mode = rw

    * Set the WC modeling packages that should be installed into *wc_env*. This should be specified in the pip requirements.txt format and should be specified in terms of paths within the container. The following example illustrates how to create editable installations of clones of *wc_lang* and *wc_utils* mounted from the host into the container.::

        [wc_env_manager]
            [[container]]
                python_package = '''
                    -e /root/Documents-Host/wc_lang
                    -e /root/Documents-Host/wc_utils
                    '''

Third, use the following command to use *wc_env* to construct a Docker container.::

  wc_env_manager container build

This will print out the id of the created container.


Using containers to run WC models and WC modeling tools
-------------------------------------------------------

Fourth, use the following command to log in the container.::

  docker exec -it <container_id>

Fifth, use the integrated WC modeling command line program, `*wc* <https://github.com/KarrLab/wc>`_, to run WC models and WC modeling tools. For example, the following command illustrates how to get help for the *wc* program. See the `*wc* documentation <https://docs.karrlab.org/wc>`_ for more information.::

  container >> wc --help


Using WC modeling computing environments with an external IDE such as PyCharm
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Docker images created with *wc_env_manager* can be used with external integrated development environments (IDEs) such as PyCharm. See the links below for instructions on how to use these tools with Docker images created with *wc_env_manager*.

* `Jupyter Notebook <https://jupyter-docker-stacks.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `PyCharm Professional Edition <https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/docker.html>`_
* Other IDEs:

    #. Install the IDE in a Docker image
    #. Use X11 forwarding to render graphical output from a Docker container to your host. See `Using GUI's with Docker <https://jupyter-docker-stacks.readthedocs.io>`_ for more information.

Commit message:

adding ability to configure container environment variables

docs/tutorial_developers.rst, after:

Tutorial for developers of WC models and WC modeling tools
==========================================================

Developers should follow these steps to build and use WC modeling computing environments (Docker images and containers) to test, debug, and run WC models and WC modeling tools.

#. Use *wc_env_manager* to pull existing WC modeling Docker images
#. Use *wc_env_manager* to create Docker containers with volumes mounted from the host and installations of software packages contained on the house
#. Run models and tools inside the Docker containers created by *wc_env_manager*


Pulling existing Docker images
------------------------------

First, use the following command to pull existing WC modeling Docker images. This will pull both the base image with third part dependencies, *wc_env_dependencies*, and the image with WC models and modeling tools, *wc_env*.::

  wc_env_manager pull

The following commands can also be used to pull the individual images.::

  wc_env_manager base-image pull
  wc_env_manager image pull


Building containers for WC modeling
-----------------------------------

Second, set the configuration for the containers created by *wc_env_manager* by creating a configuration file `./wc_env_manager.cfg` following the schema outlined in `/path/to/wc_env_manager/wc_env_manager/config/core.schema.cfg` and the defaults in `/path/to/wc_env_manager/wc_env_manager/config/core.default.cfg`.

    * Configure the host paths that should be mounted into the containers. Typically, this should including mounting the parent directory of your Git repositories into the container. For example, this configuration will map (a) the Documents directory of your host (`${HOME}/Documents`) to the `/root/host/Documents` directory of the container and (b) your the WC modeling configuration directory of your host (`${HOME}/.wc`) to the WC modeling configuration directory of the container (`/root/.wc`). `${HOME}` will be substituted for the path to your home directory on your host.::

        [wc_env_manager]
            [[container]]
                [[[paths_to_mount]]]
                    [[[[${HOME}/Documents]]]]
                        bind = /root/host/Documents
                        mode = rw
                    [[[[${Home}/.wc]]]]
                        bind = /root/.wc
                        mode = rw

    * Configure the WC modeling packages that should be installed into *wc_env*. This should be specified in the pip requirements.txt format and should be specified in terms of paths within the container. The following example illustrates how to create editable installations of clones of *wc_lang* and *wc_utils* mounted from the host into the container.::

        [wc_env_manager]
            [[container]]
                python_package = '''
                    -e /root/host/Documents/wc_lang
                    -e /root/host/Documents/wc_utils
                    '''

    * Configure environment variables that should be set in the Docker container. The following example illustrates how to set the ``PYTHONPATH`` environment variable to the paths to *wc_lang* and *wc_sim*. Note, we recommend using pip to manipulate the Python path rather than directly manipulating the ``PYTHONPATH`` environment variable. We only recommend manipulating the ``PYTHONPATH`` environment variable for packages that don't have ``setup.py`` scripts or for packages that ``setup.py`` scripts that you temporarily don't want to run.::

        [wc_env_manager]
            [[container]]
                [[[environment]]]
                    PYTHONPATH = '/root/host/Documents/wc_lang:/root/host/Documents/wc_utils'


Third, use the following command to use *wc_env* to construct a Docker container.::

  wc_env_manager container build

This will print out the id of the created container.


Using containers to run WC models and WC modeling tools
-------------------------------------------------------

Fourth, use the following command to log in the container.::

  docker exec -it <container_id>

Fifth, use the integrated WC modeling command line program, `*wc* <https://github.com/KarrLab/wc>`_, to run WC models and WC modeling tools. For example, the following command illustrates how to get help for the *wc* program. See the `*wc* documentation <https://docs.karrlab.org/wc>`_ for more information.::

  container >> wc --help


Using WC modeling computing environments with an external IDE such as PyCharm
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Docker images created with *wc_env_manager* can be used with external integrated development environments (IDEs) such as PyCharm. See the links below for instructions on how to use these tools with Docker images created with *wc_env_manager*.

* `Jupyter Notebook <https://jupyter-docker-stacks.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `PyCharm Professional Edition <https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/docker.html>`_
* Other IDEs:

    #. Install the IDE in a Docker image
    #. Use X11 forwarding to render graphical output from a Docker container to your host. See `Using GUI's with Docker <https://jupyter-docker-stacks.readthedocs.io>`_ for more information.
